content/001/index.md, before:

+++
title = '001 - Simple projection with perspective'
+++

### Notes

Given an input point \((x,y,z)\) in world space, we map it to camera space as:

\[
\begin{aligned}
x*{\text{camera}} &= x, \\
y*{\text{camera}} &= y, \\
z\_{\text{camera}} &= z \operatorname{mod} 2,
\end{aligned}
\]

which wraps the depth coordinate with period 2. The result is then multiplied
by the projection matrix:

\[
\begin{aligned}
\begin{bmatrix}
g & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
0 & g & 0 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & g & -1 \\
0 & 0 & 1 & 0
\end{bmatrix}
\begin{bmatrix}
x*{\text{camera}} \\
y*{\text{camera}} \\
z*{\text{camera}} \\
1
\end{bmatrix}
&=
\begin{bmatrix}
g\,x*{\text{camera}} \\
g\,y*{\text{camera}} \\
g\,z*{\text{camera}} - 1 \\
z\_{\text{camera}}
\end{bmatrix}
\end{aligned}
\]

Here, \((g)\) is called `focal length` of the camera. A short focal length
corresponds to a wide field of view, and a long focal length corresponds to a
narrow field of view. By increasing or decreasing the distance \((g)\), the
camera can be made to zoom in and zoom out, respectively.

### Resources

- [WebGL model view projection](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebGL_API/WebGL_model_view_projection#divide_by_w)

Commit message:

fix: use infinite projection and place camera at (0, 0, -1)

content/001/index.md, after:

+++
title = '001 - Infinite projection'
+++

### Goal

Understand projections.

### Notes

Given an input point \((𝑥*{\text{world}},𝑦*{\text{world}},𝑧\_{\text{world}})\)
in world space, where \(𝑥∈[−1,1]\), \(𝑦∈[−1,1]\), and \(z∈[−1,1]\), we map it
to camera space as follows:

\[
\begin{aligned}
x*{\text{camera}} &= x*{\text{world}} \\
y*{\text{camera}} &= y*{\text{world}} \\
z*{\text{camera}} &= z*{\text{world}} + 1
\end{aligned}
\]

The result is then multiplied by the infinite projection matrix with \(n=0.1\)
(near plane), \(s=1.0\) (spect ratio), and \(g=0.1\) (focal length):

\[
\begin{aligned}
\begin{bmatrix}
\frac{g}{s} & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
0 & g & 0 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 1 & -n \\
0 & 0 & 1 & 0
\end{bmatrix}
\begin{bmatrix}
x*{\text{camera}} \\
y*{\text{camera}} \\
z*{\text{camera}} \\
1
\end{bmatrix}
&=
\begin{bmatrix}
\frac{g}{s} \times x*{\text{camera}} \\
g \times y*{\text{camera}} \\
z*{\text{camera}} - n \\
z\_{\text{camera}}
\end{bmatrix}
\end{aligned}
\]

A short focal length corresponds to a wide field of view, and a long focal
length corresponds to a narrow field of view. By increasing or decreasing the
distance \(g\), the camera can be made to zoom in and zoom out, respectively.
The previous transformation produces coordinates in clip space
\((𝑥*{\text{clip}},𝑦*{\text{clip}},𝑧\_{\text{clip}})\).

### Resources

- [WebGL model view projection](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebGL_API/WebGL_model_view_projection#divide_by_w)
